Initial coin offerings are extremely lucrative:

If you allow a cryptocurrency to be traded freely, the phenomenon of saving happens.

There are several examples in history for this phenomenon.  As a matter of fact, fractional reserve arose from the same phenomenon.  Given sufficient trust on the bank, especially that the bank would redeem the bank note for gold, made the bank notes more suitable for the objectives of currency than gold itself (store of value, fungible means of exchange of value).  Therefore, there were incentives for the recipients of bank notes to not redeem them for gold but to “pay them forward”.  For this, it was crucial that there was trust the bank would not care who would attempt to redeem them.

In the case of cryptocurrencies, the whole chain of ownership can be tracked seamlessly, while allowing perfect trade ability.

Eventually, the proportion of people redeeming their bank notes for gold was consistently so low that banks began to issue loans over-booking their gold, a practice we now call “leverage”.  As we know, in the late Middle Ages the proportion kept well above 20 to 1 (5%).  In modern days the central banks artificially cap leverage at factors from 10 to 1 to 40 to 1, but as we know from the relatively recent experience of the subprime mortgage implosion, using sophisticated financial derivatives banks routinely were able to leverage factors above 100 to 1.

Fractional reserve illustrates how a given quantity of something of value can be used to issue tradeable papers that achieve a leverage of perhaps 20 to one.  In more contemporary language we can call those papers ”tokens” to also encompass cryptocurrency tokens.  As I am about to illustrate, the real phenomenon is not the backing by a valuable asset, but the confidence in the ability to trade the token.

The foundation of one of the earliest and also most important central banks of the world illustrates the phenomenology of initial coin offerings:  Back in the era of King Henry I of England, around 1100, the crown began to accept as payment for taxes [split tally sticks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tally_stick#Split_tally_in_England).  These sticks were literally wooden sticks with transversal notches inscribed in them denoting a value; these values were loans the crown had taken; the sticks were then split down the middle, the lender would keep one half as their receipt for the loan and the crown would keep the other half to be able to authenticate a tally stick that would be presented at a later time to claim the payment of the loan; it was impossible to falsify a tally stick half that would match all the notches and wood grain characteristics of the authentic tally stick half.  Because it was difficult to demand payment from the crown, these tally sticks were seldom used to claim payment, their manifest original purpose; the confidence in their trade ability came from the fact the crown would accept them as a form of payment for taxes; that is, it can not be argued they were really backed by something of value (since the word of a monarch that they will pay a loan is so hard to enforce for their own subjects), but because ultimately a big economic agent, the crown, would accept them as a form of payment.  It worked for a long time, over seven hundred years, comparatively speaking longer than the current central bank based monetary system; until it was replaced by fiat money created by central banking.  It worked because the crown would receive full loans and pay with worthless wooden sticks, and those who lent money could use the sticks as a superior form of store of value and means of exchange.

This form of fiat currency was so successful that it lasted more than seven centuries.  It was only after the advent of central banking that they were phased out.  They were so valuable by the time the Parliament wanted to celebrate their abolishment, they burned them at their furnaces, and in that way began an out of control fire which demolished the House of Lords, the House of Commons and most of Westminster.  Their replacement, central banking, follows the same principles of gold fractional reserve and the tally sticks to the extreme:  All money is created as debt (just like tally sticks are created as the debt of the crown) and backed by absolutely nothing but the promise to be accepted as payment for taxes (also as the tally sticks), that is, the only "intrinsic" value central bank money has is that it will be useful to pay taxes.  One might think that for the privilege of creating money out of nothing Banks should have to pay something, but in reality it is the opposite, [they are paid interest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Money_creation#By_commercial_banks)!; this has very important consequences: Because almost all central bank fiat currency money is created as interest bearing debt, that form of money is necessarily a vicious cycle that needs periodic reset in the form of catastrophic economic contractions.  It is literally an exponentially growing time bomb.  Proof of work mining cryptocurrencies are an entirely different form of creating money: The miners provide a service: immutability of the blockchain, as explained before, the trust in the blockchain given by the proof of work is at the root of the value that emerges from a cryptocurrency.  Therefore, they are not necessarily inflationary, they may *increase* the value of the network more than the effect of enlarging the supply of tokens through block rewards.  The history of bitcoin proves this:  At the beginning mining rewards were four times today's, yet, the value of the whole of bitcoin has grown dramatically, even when *all bitcoin money has been created through mining!*.

As can be seen, issuing monetary tokens, be them paper, sticks, or cryptographic keys, if they are tradeable, the issuer is going to get several times the value they have to redeem.

In a way, issuing cryptocurrencies is to replicate the “tried an true” multi centennial trick of central banks of enriching themselves creating inorganic money.  The critical issue is how much confidence their users have on using the tokens, as can be seen, basic ability to trade them and that they are at least theoretically accepted by a major user (such as the issuer itself), is enough to multiply the value several times.

A cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin does not even have that.  It would be misinterpreting the phenomenon that has happened in the world in these years as that Bitcoin is worthless because it is not backed by anything in the real world and therefore all of its valuation is just speculation; make that mistake at your own peril; the careful examination of the relevant historical precedents and the currently happening events suggest a more plausible interpretation: that compared to any pre-existing form of store of value or means of exchange, Bitcoin is several orders of magnitude better in terms of trust, of speed, reliability and many other characteristics to make it a network of very large value.  If it is impossible to reject the interpretation that Bitcoin has any value, then it is a virtuous (or vicious) cycle of value since its reach is already global, its speed is nearly instantaneous, it settles transactions worth tens of millions of dollars in a matter of a few minutes, and then the conclusion is inescapable that its relentless, accelerating, profound development will make it literally of unpredictably high value.

